+++
title = "The LaTeX typesetting system"
date = "2022-01-16T23:00:00+01:00"
author = "Kevin"
cover = ""
tags = ["latex", "typesetting", "documentation", "writing"]
keywords = ["latex", "typesetting", "documentation", "writing"]
description = "Why writing using a traditional word editor is inefficient"
showFullContent = false
+++
Recently I've been picking up interest in LaTeX again because of the 
amount of documenting I've been doing for my hobby projects.
As a programmer and more technical person I do not want to bother with 
design or layout of my documentation (mostly), I just want it to be 
readable and functional. The other problem is that when you use a 
traditional word processor you tend to be stuck with the format unless 
you explicitly export it to a PDF for example.

LaTeX is very useful because you're essentially removing the WYSIWYG 
layer and "programming" the document directly, you can see it as 
typing the metadata manually intead of having it automatically 
generated by an editor. The pro's of this is that you can define 
everything you need without having to define the document styling 
and setting up/figuring out how to create an index and set the correct 
margins.
The cons of LaTeX is that it's very DIY, it's like Vi/Vim, but not that 
much of a learning curve. Once you get the idea behind it you see 
why people use it, and when you want to finally make your document look 
nice you can style it however you want.

And a final note on this is that LaTeX is useful for moments when 
multiple people are working or updating it, since it's all just text at 
it's core you can easily check it into a repo and merge changes. When 
it's ready you can generate a PDF, HTML, or whatever you want and publish 
it.

I might post some more stuff about LaTeX in the future as I learn more 
about it and have used it more.